#French polices de chargements meets XML TEI#
This small guide will introduce to how I encoded these documents with XML TEI. This repository contains the 3 XML files from which an ODD file was extracted, which was then corrected and turned into a custom rng schema. Both the ODD and RNG are included in this repository too. 

The idea of this encoding is to cumulate structured indications about the informations contained in the text, and about what is lacking or could not be read.

First of all, we use a  label <placeName/>, with an authority list associated in our header, using a custm made "key" attribute, to study the trade routes, and dodge the common orthographic variations that could occur in the XVIIIth century. The use of a list might also allow for some incorporations of wikidata authority notices or else.
Ideally, we would do the same with the label <persName/>, but it would require defining more precisely a limited list of people we are studying, which would have lacked interest on the small sample encoded for the sake of this exercice.
The same way than for places, in the eventuality of famous people appearing in the text, the authority list could incorporate some wikidata links or other outside databases. 
We decided to include the titles given to people in the wether they use an or not. Title were very important in the XVIIIth century France, so they represent a very valuable information on people, and were therefore included.
In our sample we included some <unclear/> and <damage/> labels because we used mid-quality images that we could not always decypher, and one of the documents occured to be missing its right extremity. These uses are by-the-book XML TEI, but hopefully would not occur too often in the case of a larger, more organized study. Eventualy, we used a great deal of <abbr/> labels, because the documents contained a great deal of abbreviations. We noted the type of abbreviation but did not establish translation of the said abbreviation.
We did so because we saw our work like a study on people and places, which have very clear and normalized abreviation (Sr for Sieur, Cpn for capitaine ...), but in the case of a study that would have been more focused on the goods carried by the boats, and their monetary values,it would have been useful to mention the meaning of the numerous measure units or monneys that appear in these documents.
